# Amcacheparser Cheat Sheet

Beginning with Windows 8+ and recently backported to patched Windows 7 systems, Amcache.hve replaces the older application execution artifact RecentFileCache.bcf. It contains information useful for tracking executables and drivers. 

Tracks installed applications, loaded drivers, and unassociated executables. Will capture the full path, file size, file modification time, compilation time, publisher metadata, and SHA1 hashes of executables and drivers.

***Location**: C:\Windows\AppCompat\Programs\Amcache.hve*

***Limitations**: Entries can be due to automated file discovery or program installation and do not always indicate program execution. Microsoft has also changed the database massively at least four times in the short time it has been available. The format is driven by DLL version, and not OS version. This means the format you find is largely dependent on the patch level of the system. The data structures you see might be radically different if the system being investigated is on an older patch level. There are three major categories of files tracked in the latest version: Executed (and shimmed) GUI applcations, executables and drivers that were copied as part of application execution, and executables present in one of the directories scanned by the Microsoft Compatibility Appraiser scheduled task (Program Files, Program Files x86, and Desktop). The first category is the only one to do with execution, and it only applies to GUI application - this is a small subset of files. Recommendation is to use this artifact as an indication of executable and driver presence on a system, and for all the metadata it tracks for each file. Other artifacts such as Prefetch can be used to prove execution and execution times.*

***Auditing Executable Presence**: The InventoryApplicationFile key is a good starting point when reviewing Amcache data. It contains subkeys named per application, providing an easy means to identify executables of interest. The algorithm generating the hash following each name has not been reversed but appears to be related to the full path of the executable. You may see multiple keys with the same executable name, but present in different folders. As you find items of interest, the values in each key provide additional information. The "FileID" value provides the SHA1 hash that this artifact is famous for (minus the first four zeroes). "LowerCaseLongPath" has the full path information. "Size" has file size, and the "LinkDate" value keeps the PE header compilation time (a value often tracked in malware indicators of compromise). For each executable tracked, there might be additional information within the InventoryApplication key within the Amcache hive. This key tracks installed applications, so it will only contain a subset of what is tracked within InventoryApplicationFile. But should you find a match, it contains useful information like installation date (with a time granularity of one day) and more detailed publisher information. The two keys are matched together via the "ProgramId" value. Each entry under InventoryApplication is named according to the "ProgramId", making it easy to associate. Note that unlike previous versions of the Amcache.hve database (Windows 8-era), the last write times of the registry keys rarely indicate execution time. Instead, this timestamp is largely related to when the Microsoft Compatibility Appraiser scheduled task added information to the database. Entries in these keys do not necessarily indicate execution, but they do indicate the executable was present on the system.*

***Auditing Installed Drivers**: Loaded drivers become important when investigating systems potentially infected with advanced malware. Drivers are used by a wide range of rootkits, bootkits, and security tool evasion capabilities in the wild. The Amcache.hve InventoryDriverBinary key contains a wealth of useful information on drivers seen on the system. Information is stored with one sub-key per driver, and we can look for anomalies based on known good/bad hashes, the modification time of the driver (potentially matching with known timeframes of suspicious activity), whether the driver was signed (on 64-bit systems all drivers should be signed), and any metadata stored in the PE header of the driver.*

- Run Amcacheparser (https://ericzimmerman.github.io/#!index.md)

```
C:\> amcacheparser.exe -i -f Amcache.hve --csv C:\Temp

# Amcache_ProgramEntries = InventoryApplication key. Contains metadata on installed applications
# Amcache_AssociatedFileEntries = InventoryApplicationFile key. Associated with installed software
# Amcache_UnassociatedFileEntries = InventoryApplicationFile key. Contains information on executables present on the system that may not have been part of an installation package e.g. where did they come from?
```
